README.md, before:

# Hey Teddy : A buddy for system voice assistance

![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.x-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white)
![Vosk](https://img.shields.io/badge/Speech%20Recognition-VOSK-green?style=for-the-badge)
![Linux](https://img.shields.io/badge/Linux-Desktop-informational?style=for-the-badge&logo=linux&logoColor=white)
![Offline](https://img.shields.io/badge/Fully-Offline-success?style=for-the-badge)
![System Control](https://img.shields.io/badge/System-Automation-red?style=for-the-badge)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow?style=for-the-badge)


This is a project attempting to make an offline voice assistant using the vosk library for voice-to-text parsing. I want to have an extensive selection of commands which can be executed through voice.

## Features (of V1)

Teddy can support the following commands:

### System control
* Shutdown
* Reboot
* Logout
* Lock screen

### Application control
* open terminal
* open browser
* open VS Code

### Window control
* close active window
    * Works only for xorg/xwayland windows currently

### Audio control
* Mute/Unmute speakers
* Increase/Decrease volume

### Brightness control
* Increase/Decrease brightness

### Network control
* Turn Wi-Fi on/off
* Turn bluetooth on/off

### Battery status
* Says the battery level out loud

## Working

### Wake Word + Offline Speech Recognition

Teddy listens for a wake word using:

**Porcupine (Picovoice)** — highly accurate wake-word engine

**Vosk (vosk-model-small-en-us-0.15)** — low-memory offline speech-to-text model ideal for command recognition

No cloud processing. No internet required.

## Project structure

```bash
Hey-Teddy/
├── models/
│   └── vosk-model-small-en-us-0.15/
├── app
│   ├── commands.py
│   ├── config.py
│   ├── main.py
│   ├── nlu.py
│   ├── recognizer.py
│   └── tts.py
├── Requirements
│   ├── linux_requirements.txt
│   └── requirements_python.txt
├── .gitignore
├── LICENSE
└── README.md

```

## Installation
1. Clone the repo

```bash
git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/Hi-Teddy.git
cd Hi-Teddy
```

2. Install dependencies
```bash
pip install -r Requirements/Requirements/requirements_python.txt
sudo dnf install wmctrl brightnessctl nmcli
```

3. Download Vosk model

```bash
Place the following model in the models/ folder:
vosk-model-small-en-us-0.15
```

4. Run Teddy

```bash
python app/main.py
```

## Why Teddy?

It is quite nice to have a friendly companion in you laptop or desktop. It gives it a certain personality. 

Teddy is not meant to compete with online cloud assistants. It is a offline, extendable buddy.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the `LICENSE` file for details.

## Notes & Limitations
* Close Window

    close_window only works for Xorg / XWayland windows using wmctrl.
    Wayland-native apps cannot be closed externally due to GNOME security restrictions.

* Microphone Must Be Active

    Vosk requires continuous access to the microphone.
    If the mic is blocked by permissions or another app, Teddy will not hear commands.

Commit message:

A few changes to the README and also to the application
Added a .desktop file as a desktop launcher.

README.md, after:

# Hey Teddy : A buddy for system voice assistance

![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.x-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white)
![Vosk](https://img.shields.io/badge/Speech%20Recognition-VOSK-green?style=for-the-badge)
![Linux](https://img.shields.io/badge/Linux-Desktop-informational?style=for-the-badge&logo=linux&logoColor=white)
![Offline](https://img.shields.io/badge/Fully-Offline-success?style=for-the-badge)
![System Control](https://img.shields.io/badge/System-Automation-red?style=for-the-badge)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow?style=for-the-badge)

<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/logo.png" width="180" style="border-radius: 20px;">
</p>

This is a project attempting to make an offline voice assistant using the vosk library for voice-to-text parsing. I want to have an extensive selection of commands which can be executed through voice.

## Features (of V1)

Teddy can support the following commands:

### System control
* Shutdown
* Reboot
* Logout
* Lock screen

### Application control
* open terminal
* open browser
* open VS Code

### Window control
* close active window
    * Works only for xorg/xwayland windows currently

### Audio control
* Mute/Unmute speakers
* Increase/Decrease volume

### Brightness control
* Increase/Decrease brightness

### Network control
* Turn Wi-Fi on/off
* Turn bluetooth on/off

### Battery status
* Says the battery level out loud

## Working

### Wake Word + Offline Speech Recognition

Teddy listens for a wake word using:

**Porcupine (Picovoice)** — highly accurate wake-word engine

**Vosk (vosk-model-small-en-us-0.15)** — low-memory offline speech-to-text model ideal for command recognition

No cloud processing. No internet required.

## Project structure

```bash
Hey-Teddy/
├── models/
│   └── vosk-model-small-en-us-0.15/
├── app
│   ├── commands.py
│   ├── config.py
│   ├── main.py
│   ├── nlu.py
│   ├── recognizer.py
│   └── tts.py
├── assets
│   └── logo.png
├── Requirements
│   ├── linux_requirements.txt
│   └── requirements_python.txt
├── Hey-Teddy.desktop
├── .gitignore
├── LICENSE
└── README.md

```

## Using Hey-Teddy
1. Clone the repo

```bash
git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/Hi-Teddy.git
cd Hi-Teddy
```

2. Install dependencies
```bash
pip install -r Requirements/Requirements/requirements_python.txt
sudo dnf install wmctrl brightnessctl nmcli
```

3. Download Vosk model

```bash
Place the following model in the models/ folder:
vosk-model-small-en-us-0.15
```

4. Run Teddy

```bash
python app/main.py
```

### Installation as a desktop app

I have added a desktop launcher so that it can be run as a regular application

1. Make the .desktop file executable

```bash
chmod +x Hey-Teddy.desktop
```

2. Install to system applications menu
```bash
cp Hey-Teddy.desktop ~/.local/share/applications/
```

3. Update the desktop to see it quick

```bash
update-desktop-database ~/.local/share/applications/
```

Now we can see it as an app.

## Why Teddy?

It is quite nice to have a friendly companion in you laptop or desktop. It gives it a certain personality. 

Teddy is not meant to compete with online cloud assistants. It is a offline, extendable buddy.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the `LICENSE` file for details.

## Notes & Limitations
* Close Window

    close_window only works for Xorg / XWayland windows using wmctrl.
    Wayland-native apps cannot be closed externally due to GNOME security restrictions.

* Microphone Must Be Active

    Vosk requires continuous access to the microphone.
    If the mic is blocked by permissions or another app, Teddy will not hear commands.
